tape 2.
Okay, I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, I usually
usually had something that I was looking for, or, of course, like if I go up to Yale, I just, you know, whatever they brought, you know, the rare books library brought out, the boxes and boxes, you know, with their Hemingway material, and go through them.
But then when I went to a number of public libraries,
A lot of times it would be specifically, like when I was at Bloomington, and then I'd naturally go to the public library, and then I would, where I would go would be to their short story collections, because I was in, and then I went to Harcourt Grace, and they left me look at their in-house library, and so did what other publishers.
and McGraw Hill had an excellent in-house library that I could spend rainy days, rainy lunch hours in.
So that it's just really, you asked me before about
how a bibliographer proceeded, but really just with access to collections and to following up those footnotes.
But things like newspaper articles, that has to be as much luck as anything else, because there wasn't really a database like we have today that you could... True, true.
So, of course, the marvelous New York Times index
And then, as I say, I had access to some of the Midwest newspaper files, to their morons.
And let's see how else I can explain.
And then, of course, once, something like the date of when he won the Nobel Prize in 1954, or the suicide in 1961.
Then, you know, I would go to the newspaper that I knew would have... That have material on it.
That would have coverage, important coverage on...
Now, do you do any work with a computer in this?
No, I haven't, no.
So you really, I don't know how a computer, if the technology that's available today was available to you then?
You have no idea of the kind of search apparatus that you'd be able to do.
It's unbelievable.
I don't know.
You know, I left McGraw-Hill in 1979, and the next year when my assistant took over as supervisor, why, they planted a computer on their desk.
So I missed it by a fraction.
But I do use it at the... I do a lot of work on this...
at the UMKC Library and at the, where, Library of Congress, where was I just, oh, and at the Nelson Atkins Museum is a lovely library.
And, you know, have to use computers.
And then, of course, the Kansas City Public Library now.
So what kinds of things do you do now?
Are you still doing work, research work?
Oh, still working on my Dutch artist, yes, uh-huh.
Dutch artist?
When did you start this?
Well, I noticed Jerry mentions it back here, and what did we say that was, 1977?
My first trip abroad, and, oh, this is another story, and I guess maybe we shouldn't get into this.
My first trip abroad, when I went to Paris, and then I went to London,
and took a tour at Warwick Castle.
I saw a portrait of a man by Adrian Hanneman.
And Marjorie's always had painted paints, and that was the only, hers were the only paintings I ever saw sign them.
But I'd been going to art museums since I was a teenager.
And I had never heard of him.
What's his name again?
The same last name.
With one N?
First name is A-D-R-I-A-E-N.
Okay.
The Dutch spelling of Adrian.
And his years are 1604 to 1671.
So I once read where everyone
should know another century than their own.
And I have become very familiar with the 17th century.
So I've been on it for a while.
So what are you trying to document?
Now, you may smile.
I am doing a biography of Avian Hanneman.
Oh, you are?
Because there isn't any.
So this will be a biography.
Have you started the writing?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Yes, I've done the first draft.
And a Dutch art scholar did a catalog of his paintings.
And I've seen his work in old McGraw Hill had a tour
I think it was something like $300 with hotel and plane and food to Russia.
And they had one of his paintings there at the Pushkin in Moscow.
And then, of course, I've seen them.
I've seen them in Scotland and England and many in The Hague and in Belgium.
And then there's one here at the Nelson Atkins Museum.
There's one at Yale.
There's one in the New York Metropolitan.
But the one where a large reproduction hangs over my desk is at the National Gallery in Washington.
And it was bought by Andrew Mellon back in 1937 as the Van Dyke.
And then it was, oh...
Let's see, I just heard he said until it was a good 40 years later, maybe, where it had hung originally in the Hermitage when Catherine the Great bought it.
It had been a Hanneman, and then they changed it to Van Dyck and back and forth, and finally now the National Gallery.
They just issued a beautiful book on their Dutch collection last year, and it's fully credited to Adrian Hanneman.
Now, he's Dutch, you said?
yes uh-huh now is that your background dutch born in the hague uh no so there's no chance that this is a relation no see and then uh no uh our name had the second n and so that uh so it's a name it's it's a name that's the same it's not blood the name uh of course grabbed me and then uh
I wanted to know more about the man and there I was.
I've actually thanked God a number of times that having given me the one project on Hemingway that I wasn't sure that I would ever be lucky enough to find another project that I wanted to
uh really get into uh deeply and uh and this has been and and of course any artist whose work can be confused with uh where uh some of his paintings have been attributed to van dyke you know he has to be pretty good has to be pretty good now how are you how are you finding out details about his life oh uh again um just uh
Again, finding something, finding footnotes, tracking down everything.
I've worked at the Library of Congress several times.
I had told my sister that I may never see a picture of what he looks like,
And then a week later at the New York Public Library in a book of Horace Walpole's, his Anticdotes of Painting, and there was an etching of a self-portrait.
So it, too, is hanging here over my desk.
Do you have a publisher to show it to?
No.
Years ago,
that was 1969 when I first saw it, and Miriam Brokaw at Princeton University Press.
I'm not sure if she's become the director by then or not, but she was much more interested in my doing a book on Adrian Hanneman than on Hemingway.
But no, no.
See, I've worked there.
16 years in-house and 13 years as a freelancer for McGraw Hill under pressure of deadlines and I have just not given myself any at all.
So I'm just... Well, when do you hope to have it done?
Too much.
I haven't given myself a cut-off date.
There isn't any Carlos Baker to tell me
stop stop and consider it complete complete but I am enjoying it oh well it's nice telling you something about it but now have I told you enough are there other questions you have about Hemingway well I think that I want to absorb this because I think we've got two hours on tape which is quite a bit
And so what I want to do is go listen to this and transcribe it.
And I'd like, if it's at all possible, if you could send me some of this material that you have.
I'm glad to.
Absolutely.
I'll put it in the mail this week.
So that would be wonderful to have my address.
And then, you know, we'll talk again.
Very good.
You know, like yourself, I'm not on a strict deadline either.
So this is not going to be done, you know, in two months as you can... Oh, good for you.
Absolutely.
Oh, I can see.
I mean, you did the other books so beautifully.
I can understand if you don't want pressure put on you.
Well, I actually want to see this out in 1999.
Wouldn't that be good?
I plan to get all the writing done within the next year.
Once I start, I do 1,000 words a day.
I require that of myself.
Oh, I think that's marvelous.
And my rule is 1,000 publishable words a day, not just 1,000 words.
But a thousand words I'm happy with, you know?
Uh-huh.
So, of course, I use the computer, which helps a lot.
Oh, yes.
Yes, it would.
But now, if you see something more rusty,
Well, you think I might have misspoke.
Oh, we'll go over this.
Don't worry.
This is not the only time we're going to talk.
We'll have to talk again, and undoubtedly there will be some questions, and then I might want to go over a few things with you.
Oh, very good.
Okay.
Very good.
Well, thanks so much for taking the time to talk to me.
Really, I appreciate it.
Well, it's been a pleasure.
I'm very flattered that you were that interested in what I did.
I consider it a big achievement, but since, as I say, since 1981 I really, I think Princeton has only sent me out, forwarded one query from a professor, so I've really been out of touch.
Since 1981?
since we moved back to Kansas City.
And you mean one query meaning like?
Oh, a professor wanted something.
I don't have it at the top of my hand.
But they had forwarded, you know, of course, early on there were a number of letters sent to Princeton that they forwarded to me.
As I say, I have been so much away from it that I think it's been good for me to review all of this.
Great.
Thank you for calling.
Well, thank you for taking the time, and we'll talk again soon.
Oh, very good.
Okay, you take care.
I will, you too.
Okay, thank you.
Bye-bye.